hey not everybody can be right all the
time in fact everybody's got to be wrong
some of the time but I just saw a quick
video from a natural vegan and it's so
true and what she has to say is so right
so wanted to put up a couple of words in
agreement with her the basic point she
makes is that there is no logical reason
there is no scientific reason for a
Whole Foods plant-based diet to be
nutritionally complete there is no
reason for a vegan diet in principle to
be nutritionally complete so the point
is yes on almost any diet conceivably
you can have nutritional deficiencies
and there are a lot of excuses being
made a lot of glorification is being
offered for the vegan diet as long as
you eat enough calories as long as
you're eating fruit and vegetables all
the time you'll never get a deficiency
and the further point that a natural
vegan makes although very briefly to
back this up is that if people continue
to believe in this or promote this
misconception it will result in X vegans
so I want to say up front my shallow
point I have a shallow point I have a
deeper point the shallow point is I
actually knew one example of this I'm
not going to say like there are
thousands and thousands of x vegans
around the world who had this experience
the total number of people were talking
about in 2015 is small but I knew
someone in the internet I think she
never told me her age she was maximum
age 20 she might have been 18 um I only
knew who are on the internet because she
was a vegan activist so she wasn't just
someone who was like passively vegan or
vegan because her parents forced her to
me she was interested in veganism and
advocated veganism and she was vegan
herself she had a shock when she went to
the doctor's office and the doctor came
back to her with blood test results and
said you have serious health problems
due to deficiencies in your diet and I
really tried to talk to her after that
because she she flipped I mean she got
spooked we would say she got scared
straight in common parlance in slang for
whatever reason that experience for her
of talking to the doctor and being told
basically you're vegan diet is killing
you she
flipped 180 degrees and I remember like
she she had the word vegan like in her
username she was really into veganism
and she went back to eating like pork
sausages like I couldn't believe the
change and now I wrote to her I didn't
write to her with hate mail I didn't
write you with anger I was writing to
her reasoning with her because I thought
I could talk her through this and be
like look from my perspective even if
you had a short term reason even if you
want doctor's orders to consume animal
products for like two weeks or something
to me that would never be a
justification for in the long term
resigning yourself to eating animal
products in a daily basis that makes no
sense to me now you know people can fill
in the blanks here it is only under some
really bizarre circumstances that you
would be under legitimate doctor's
orders to eat meat although the reality
is doctors are human beings too I've
heard lots of stories about doctors
giving bad advice of telling vegans and
vegetarians they have to eat meat for
the sake of their health even if it's
not true so although the legitimate
scientific reasons for that incredibly
rare and narrow the social the socially
real reasons given are probably all over
the place um to digress briefly I myself
had the experience of being treated like
garbage by doctors in a hospital in
France because their perception of me
was that because I was vegan I must be a
member of some strange cult and the
doctors treated me like crap and the
nurses treated me like crap and it was
uh with such a struggle to get food in
the hospital and just even though what I
was actually saying in conversations
with the doctors showed that I really
did have very shrewd scientific
attitudes the questions I was asking
everything else they disregarded that
and had this prejudicial attitude
towards me because I was vegan um so for
a lot of people that shock of having an
authority figure treat you like crap it
can change your life you can become an X
vegan as in the case of this girl with
her blood tests on the other hand if
you're really accustomed to authority
figures treating you like crap it might
not be the chocolate
probably what it is man look those
doctors shrimp like crap but hey you
know if you've been through it before
you sure you're gonna go through it
again might not impact you all that
deeply so you know University Professors
treat you like crap that would have a
big impact if it's the first time 10th
time 20th time you got a thick skin you
can deal with it uh alright so my
shallow point here was yes a natural
begin is right you can get dietary
deficiencies on a vegan diet and I'll
wholefoods plant-based vegan diet even
if you're eating enough calories even a
greeting fruits and vegetables and it
can result in vegans becoming ex vegan
the deeper point I want to raise here is
that this type of delusion has been a
big part of Western culture and Western
civilization especially during the 19th
century the original meaning of whole
foods today we use Whole Foods in a
different sense to me foods that aren't
processed and so on but through the
whole 19th century there was this big
fad the pseudo scientific fashion of
people believing that foods were
nutritionally complete as long as you
eat the whole food the entire food so
you see this in literature and also in
nonfiction from the 19th century I can
remember coming up repeatedly in 19th
century Russian literature so you know
Tolstoy turgay Nia of that kind of thing
remember inter Gainey have one of the
characters he's a devotee of this school
of thought where he thinks as long as
you eat like an entire fish that that
fish is going to be nutritionally
complete provide with everything you
need in nonfiction Henry David Thoreau
the historically correct pronunciation
of his name is henry david thoreau but
everyone says Henry only David Thoreau
um very famous author very influential
including influential for people
interested in ecology and veganism he
participated in this popular delusion
and he believed that as long as you ate
a whole cob of corn and this kind of
thing the entire plant with different
types of plants eating the whole stock
that this would be nutritionally
complete
ultimately this pseudo-scientific idea
is religious in its Genesis it
ultimately relies on the idea that we
live in a universe created by a
benevolent deity who ensures that things
are nutritionally complete human beings
and that is not true now today even
people who do not believe in any
religion have a belief of this kind
because they think that the relationship
between nature and human nature is
logical diagrammatic perfectly designed
perfectly intended to make your life
easier wonderful and it isn't we don't
live in a human centric universe the
stars in the sky are not aligned in a
logical pattern to help you navigate on
a ship it's amazing the human beings had
the ingenuity to figure out how to look
at the stars in the sky and navigate a
ship and figure out where they are on a
map sit down and try it sometime I had
to do some studying of star charts
because i was doing historical research
and southeast asia it's hard as hell and
that one guy one guy with the PhD who
really figured out how to use star
positions but a couple centuries ago
that was a major practical science human
beings relied upon being able to get on
a boat and figure out how far you'd gone
by charting the distances it stars in
the sky okay but it wasn't created for
us the logic and the system of relating
the position of the stars of the sky to
our position the planet is something we
create with our minds with our reasoning
we're imposing our logic on nature there
is absolutely the relationship between
nutrition and nature is arbitrary at
best some plants are poisonous some
plants are nutritious with the passage
of centuries of painstaking hard work
and trial and error above all outs
people have figured out what's going to
poison them what's going to feed them
what combinations of foods they can
survive on and man this comes up in the
social sciences also there are many many
anthropological works that assume
falsely that indigenous people who've
been living in one class
met in one area who've been indigenous
to one area for thousands of years that
they will have a perfect understanding
of how to get a nutritionally complete
diet out of that environment out of the
plants that are available in the forest
or in the desert whatever whatever
ecological niche they've been living in
and that is not true and that is never
true I've seen studies of the Cree our
indigenous people here in Canada that
point out look there were some really
nutritious plants available to them that
they did not eat they did not farm and
they did not collect from the forest
they did not exploit and one of the
reasons for that was that Cree culture
right up to the modern period right up
to there getting involved with europeans
was tremendously focused on consuming
meat so naturally also with implants
they just culturally ascribed values to
some plants and ignored others but above
all else that was a culture massively
focused on hunting meat on eating meat
like beaver and moose that was what was
valued and interestingly they put a very
low value on eating rabbit they
considered eating rabbit rather a bad
thing there are old crease sayings you
can starve to death eating Rab and stuff
of that the point is look the Cree are
one example I've also looked at native
people in Southeast Asia in Laos
Cambodia Thailand etc just like modern
Western scientific people they were all
struggling with imperfect knowledge to
figure out how to survive given the
arbitrary raw materials that emerged
from the environment around them and a
long painstaking process of trial and
error and observation and finally in the
20th century in the 21st century I mean
look at how recently the word protein
entered the English language the
discovery of protein the discovery of
the the lettered vitamins vitamins a b c
d its recent science it's all of this is
really fairly new knowledge when my
father and grandfather grew up these
misconceptions were legitimately rooted
in ignorance
it's only the last few years that the
type of information you get by putting
food into a mass spectrometer and
analyzing what nutrients are there in
what proportions and doing the
incredibly difficult work of figuring
out the impacts of chemicals within the
human body nutrients and otherwise that
that stuff is starting to come together
and we're getting a complete picture of
what you need to survive and look I'm
vegan I'm encouraging you to go vegan
but I've got to tell you when I became
vegan I had no idea that being vegan was
better for your health my attitude was
this is the right thing to do morally
and ethically and if it's bad for my
health so what because I'm not trying to
win at the Olympics I'm not going to do
something immoral and unethical because
it might help me run in a race a few
seconds faster I understand that some
people are but for me that's not what
matters my concerns are ethical
environmental ecological whatever word
you want to use my concerns are about
living a meaningful life and doing the
best I can with the knowledge I've got
in the ecology of God in the context of
God and including in the cultural
context of God and for me when I was
younger the answer that was become
strictly vegetarian as I got older it
became obvious to me the answer was to
be strictly vegan that's all I got to
say a natural vegan thanks for making a
great video and inspiring this rant what
up